{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Emoji;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10 MANUAL TO SETTING ELASTIK BREANSTALK WITH YOU JAVA  SPRINGBOOT MAVEN  BACKEND\par
Yes. For a Java Spring Boot Maven backend, the most practical AWS path that can be free or nearly free for a new AWS account is:\par
Elastic Beanstalk for the app\par
EC2 t3.micro/t2.micro free tier underneath it\par
Optional RDS PostgreSQL free tier if you need a database\par
AWS currently says new customers can start with up to $200 in Free Tier credits, and EC2 plus RDS still have free-tier-eligible small instances in the current AWS Free Tier materials. Elastic Beanstalk itself has no extra charge; you pay only for the AWS resources it creates.\par
Best choice for you\par
Use Elastic Beanstalk. It is easier than configuring raw EC2 by hand, and AWS officially supports deploying Java applications there. Elastic Beanstalk creates and manages the EC2 instance, deployment flow, health checks, and environment for you.\par
Step 0. What you need before uploading\par
On your computer, have these ready:\par
Java 17 or 21 installed\par
Maven\par
Your Spring Boot project runs locally\par
An AWS account\par
A region selected, for example us-east-1\par
If your project uses a database, be aware that database hosting is separate from the app. RDS PostgreSQL has free-tier-eligible small instances for eligible accounts, but it is not included automatically with your app.\par
Step 1. Make sure your app runs locally\par
In your project folder, run:\par
./mvnw clean package\par
That should create a JAR in target/, something like:\par
target/myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar\par
Then test it:\par
java -jar target/myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar\par
Open:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://localhost:8080/api/health }}{\fldrslt{http://localhost:8080/api/health\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
If it does not run locally, do not upload yet.\par
Step 2. Make your Spring Boot app production-ready\par
In src/main/resources/application.properties, put something like this:\par
server.port=5000\line spring.profiles.active=prod\par
Why port 5000? Elastic Beanstalk Java environments commonly expect the app to listen on port 5000 for the reverse proxy setup used by AWS examples and Java platform guidance. AWS documents Java deployment support on Elastic Beanstalk; using 5000 is a common safe setup for Spring Boot there.\par
If your app already reads PORT from environment variables, that is even better. For example:\par
server.port=$\{PORT:5000\}\par
Use that version if possible.\par
Step 3. Check your pom.xml\par
Make sure your pom.xml builds a runnable JAR.\par
A normal Spring Boot Maven setup should include:\par
<packaging>jar</packaging>\par
And the Spring Boot Maven plugin:\par
<build>\par
    <plugins>\par
        <plugin>\par
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>\par
            <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>\par
        </plugin>\par
    </plugins>\par
</build>\par
Then rebuild:\par
./mvnw clean package\par
Step 4. Create the deploy ZIP\par
Elastic Beanstalk can deploy Java applications directly. The easy way is to upload the runnable JAR inside a ZIP file.\par
Create a folder, for example deploy, and copy your JAR there.\par
Inside that folder, rename the JAR to:\par
application.jar\par
So the folder contains:\par
deploy/\par
  application.jar\par
Then zip the contents so you get:\par
deploy.zip\par
Important: the ZIP should contain application.jar at the root, not inside nested folders.\par
Step 5. Go to AWS Elastic Beanstalk\par
In AWS Console:\par
Open Elastic Beanstalk\par
Click Create application\par
Application name: for example springboot-backend\par
Platform: Java\par
Platform branch: use the current Java branch shown by AWS\par
Application code: Upload your code\par
Upload your deploy.zip\par
AWS\f1\rquote\f0 s Java deployment docs and getting-started docs walk through creating a Java environment in Elastic Beanstalk.\par
Step 6. Choose free-tier-friendly settings\par
When configuring the environment:\par
Environment type: Web server environment\par
Presets: Single instance if available\par
Instance type: choose t3.micro or t2.micro if your account is eligible\par
Capacity: keep it to 1 instance\par
Load balancer: avoid adding one for a learning project, because extra resources can cost money\par
EC2 free-tier materials still reference small instances like t3.micro, and Elastic Beanstalk itself does not add a platform fee.\par
Step 7. Create the service roles if AWS asks\par
Elastic Beanstalk may ask for:\par
a service role\par
an EC2 instance profile\par
Usually AWS can create or suggest them automatically during setup. AWS documents that Elastic Beanstalk environments use these roles for monitoring and instance access.\par
If you see default options such as:\par
aws-elasticbeanstalk-service-role\par
aws-elasticbeanstalk-ec2-role\par
choose them or let AWS create them.\par
Step 8. Wait for deployment\par
After clicking Create application, AWS will:\par
create the environment\par
launch the EC2 instance\par
deploy your JAR\par
give you a URL like:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://springboot-backend-env.eba-xxxxx.us-east-1.elasticbeanstalk.com }}{\fldrslt{http://springboot-backend-env.eba-xxxxx.us-east-1.elasticbeanstalk.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Open that URL in your browser.\par
If your app has an endpoint like:\par
/api/hello\par
test:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://your-environment-url/api/hello }}{\fldrslt{http://your-environment-url/api/hello\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Step 9. If your app uses PostgreSQL\par
You have two paths:\par
Option A: easiest for learning\par
Use a database inside RDS PostgreSQL.\par
AWS currently lists free-tier-eligible small RDS instances for PostgreSQL for eligible accounts, with storage allowances.\par
Option B: cheapest for now\par
Temporarily test with an embedded DB like H2 just to confirm deployment works.\par
For a real backend, use RDS.\par
Step 10. Connect Spring Boot to RDS later\par
When you create RDS PostgreSQL, AWS gives you:\par
endpoint\par
port\par
database name\par
username\par
password\par
\par
Then in Elastic Beanstalk, open:\par
Configuration\par
Software or Environment properties\par
Add variables such as:\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://your-rds-endpoint:5432/yourdb\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=youruser\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=yourpassword\par
SPRING_JPA_HIBERNATE_DDL_AUTO=update\par
And in application.properties:\par
spring.datasource.url=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL\}\par
spring.datasource.username=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME\}\par
spring.datasource.password=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD\}\par
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=$\{SPRING_JPA_HIBERNATE_DDL_AUTO:update\}\par
That way you do not hardcode secrets.\par
Step 11. Common problems and fixes\par
Problem: app starts locally but fails on AWS\par
Usually one of these:\par
wrong port\par
bad Java version\par
app crashes on startup because DB env vars are missing\par
your ZIP structure is wrong\par
Fixes:\par
Use:\par
server.port=$\{PORT:5000\}\par
Make sure your Maven build targets a Java version supported by the Beanstalk Java platform you selected. AWS Java platforms are documented in Elastic Beanstalk\f1\rquote\f0 s Java deployment docs.\par
Problem: 502 Bad Gateway\par
Usually your Spring Boot app did not start.\par
Open Elastic Beanstalk:\par
Environment\par
Logs\par
Request logs / Last 100 lines\par
Check the startup exception.\par
Step 12. Very important cost warning\par
\f1\ldblquote\f0 Free\f1\rdblquote  \f0 on AWS usually means one of these:\par
within new account free tier / credits\par
only for small resources\par
only if you avoid extra services\par
To reduce risk:\par
use 1 single EC2 instance\par
do not add load balancer unless needed\par
stop/delete unused environments\par
avoid adding NAT gateways or other paid networking components\par
check Billing dashboard\par
AWS\f1\rquote\f0 s current Free Tier page emphasizes credits for new customers and always-free/free-plan distinctions, so watch your account carefully.\par
Fastest path summary\par
Do this in order:\par
Run locally\par
./mvnw clean package\par
java -jar target/yourapp.jar\par
Set:\par
server.port=$\{PORT:5000\}\par
Put the JAR in a ZIP as:\par
application.jar\par
In AWS:\par
Elastic Beanstalk\par
Create application\par
Platform: Java\par
Upload ZIP\par
Single instance\par
t3.micro/t2.micro if eligible\par
Deploy and test the provided URL\par
My recommendation for you\par
For your case, use this exact plan first:\par
Spring Boot Maven app\par
Elastic Beanstalk\par
Single instance\par
No database yet for first test\par
After the app works, add RDS PostgreSQL\par
That is the safest step-by-step path for learning AWS deployment without getting lost.\par
I can now give you the exact file structure, application.properties, and pom.xml example for your Spring Boot Maven project so you can deploy it without guessing.\par
In case that appears bad gateway.\par
First fix: change Java version\par
In your screenshot, click:\par
Cambiar la versi\'f3n\par
Then choose one of these:\par
Corretto 17\par
or Corretto 21\par
Use the one that matches your project.\par
How to know which one your project uses\par
Open your pom.xml and look for something like:\par
<java.version>17</java.version>\par
Second fix: check if your app is listening on the correct port.\line add to pom.xml\line And packaging should be jar:\par
<packaging>jar</packaging>\par
In Spring Boot, put this in src/main/resources/application.properties:\par
server.port=5000\par
Better:\par
server.port=$\{PORT:5000\}\line server.port=$\{PORT:5000\}\par
Then rebuild:\par
./mvn clean package\line\line generates .jar file put in deploy folder and chage the name of application and then add to zip.\par
Option B: configure DB environment variables in Elastic Beanstalk\par
Go to:\par
Configuraci\'f3n\par
Variables de entorno\par
And add values like:\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://host:5432/dbname\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=youruser\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=yourpassword\par
And in application.properties:\par
spring.datasource.url=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL\}\par
spring.datasource.username=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME\}\par
spring.datasource.password=$\{SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD\}\par
Step 1. Go to Elastic Beanstalk environment variables\par
In your environment:\par
Configuraci\'f3n\par
find Variables de entorno or Software\par
click Editar\par
Add these variables:\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://database-ang.clu6eegyos34.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com:5432/appdbang\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=adminbckang\par
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=YOUR_REAL_PASSWORD\par
SPRING_JPA_PROPERTIES_HIBERNATE_DIALECT=org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQLDialect\par
SERVER_PORT=5000\par
LAST STEP.\par
Perfect \f1\emdash  this actually clarifies everything \f2\u-10179?\u-8923?\f0\par
And now we can be very precise:\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 Your setup is already correct:\par
Elastic Beanstalk \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 us-east-2 (Ohio) \f4\u9989?\f0\par
RDS PostgreSQL \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 us-east-2 (Ohio) \f4\u9989?\f0\par
So region is NOT the problem anymore.\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-8536?\f1  \f0 Then what is the real problem?\par
Your logs already told us clearly:\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 Connect timed out\par
That means:\par
\f4\u10060?\f1  \f0 Not wrong password\par
\f4\u10060?\f1  \f0 Not wrong DB name\par
\f4\u10060?\f1  \f0 Not region\par
\f4\u9989?\f1  \f0 NETWORK BLOCKED\par
\f2\u-10180?\u-8273?\f1  \f0 EXACT ROOT CAUSE\par
Your Elastic Beanstalk cannot reach your RDS instance\par
This is almost always:\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 Security Group misconfiguration\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-8923?\f1  \f0 FIX THIS (MOST IMPORTANT STEP)\par
Step 1: Find Elastic Beanstalk Security Group\par
Go to:\par
EC2 \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 Instances\par
Find your Beanstalk instance\par
Click it\par
Copy the Security Group ID\par
Example:\par
sg-0abc123456\par
Step 2: Add rule in RDS Security Group\par
Go to:\par
RDS \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 your database\par
Click:\par
Connectivity & security\par
Open Security Group\par
Edit Inbound rules\par
Add this:\par
Type: PostgreSQL\par
Port: 5432\par
Source: sg-XXXX (your Elastic Beanstalk SG)\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 This is the KEY fix\par
\f5\u-10178?\u-8726?\f1  \f0 Why this matters\par
Right now:\par
EB tries to connect \f3\u8594?\f1  \f4\u10060?\f1  \f0 blocked\par
DB never responds \f3\u8594?\f1  \f4\u9201?\f1  \f0 timeout\par
Spring crashes \f3\u8594?\f1  \f2\u-10179?\u-9051?\f0\par
Nginx \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 502 error\par
Exactly what your logs show.\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-8947?\f1  \f0 Optional quick test (to confirm)\par
Temporarily (just for testing):\par
Source: 0.0.0.0/0\par
If it suddenly works \f3\u8594?\f1  \f0 you CONFIRMED it's security group issue\par
Then replace it with the EB security group (secure way)\par
\f5\u9888?\u-497?\f1  \f0 ALSO VERIFY THIS (quick checklist)\par
1. Correct URL\par
jdbc:postgresql://database-ang.clu6eegyos34.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com:5432/appdbang\par
2. Correct port\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 Must be:\par
5432\par
NOT 5433 (that was your local machine)\par
3. App port\par
Make sure:\par
server.port=5000\par
Because Nginx is calling 5000\par
\f5\u-10178?\u-8736?\f1  \f0 Final diagnosis (100% clear)\par
Your issue is:\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f4\u10060?\f1  \f0 Security group blocking PostgreSQL connection\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 NOT region\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 NOT code\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-9143?\f1  \f0 NOT Spring Boot\par
\f2\u-10179?\u-8576?\f1  \f0 What will happen after fix\par
Spring Boot will start correctly \f4\u9989?\f0\par
DB connection will succeed \f4\u9989?\f0\par
/api/health will respond \f4\u9989?\f0\par
502 error will disappear \f4\u9989?\f0\par
If you want\par
Send me:\par
screenshot of RDS inbound rules\par
screenshot of EB security group\par
and I\f1\rquote\f0 ll point EXACTLY what is wrong in 10 seconds \f2\u-10179?\u-9046?\f0\lang10\par
}
 